a few yards up this hill and a shiny new
shed is the brothers second herd now
they're not milked at 5:00 a.m. or 3:00
p.m. in fact they're not milked twice a
day but they do produce more milk so how
can that be these the same sort of cows
howl stomp regions but the difference is
these girls decide when they want to be
milked Chris and Mike don't milk these
cows they've handed the job over to a
robot this doesn't sound like very good
news for the cows but let me tell you
something it could be the best thing
that's ever happened to them this is the
machine which puts cows in charge this
is like some real science fiction it's
incredible you could buy a house or a
very fancy sports car for the 120,000
pound price tag but this robot cuts a
full day's work down to an hour and a
half it never gets tired and the cows
seem to like it the cow approaches the
robot through a gate the computer
identifies her from a collar tag
dispenses the correct amount of feed and
while she tucks in the Machine washes
her teats and then collects the milk
this robot is clever technology it
reduces the amount of labor needed to
milk a cow it also makes milking less
stressful for the animal so the brothers
don't have to hook up each count to the
Machine but how does this reduce the
stress for the cows so you bring all the
cattle in herd them all in and then push
them through the system B no we don't
have to be there at all they come in at
their own accord so you just do the
doors open they come in when they want
yes they produce milk during the day
their udders get tighter and they just
want to come in and relieve the pressure
so it's just like Oh fancy a bit of a
milk milk milk we all know
instead of being rounded up twice a day
these cows come in to be milked whenever
they want
in fact they like it's so much some cows
come in as many as four times a day
since they come into the parlor whenever
they want to it looks to me like they're
loving it and do you ever get the odd
Cal that gets a bit addicted to this
machine thinks all could do with another
parent yeah I would say so cuz someone
will be coming around think they can but
there is a gating system that sort says
how long you've been milked enough
tonight
you know go back so if number 26 has
been around eight times that the
computer will go actually yeah no you
read you lot it's not only the cows that
seem happier
so other farmers Chris and Mike say they
get more milk from each cow instead of
22 litres the traditional way they're
now getting 32 liters a massive increase
not only that but when they send a milk
to their distributor for testing they
discover their milk is better quality
milk they test it for fat and protein
which is the creaminess of the milk
what's important about that we get paid
on the creaminess if it's not very
creamy they don't like the milk so
what's your your level what you aiming
for
we're looking at four percent butterfat
and three and a half percent protein
right so if you fall below that you get
paid less yes I'm impressed this appears
to be a win-win situation the cow seemed
happier they produce more milk and
creamier milk maybe one day they'll even
label it and we'll be able to buy robot
milk
you